# Configuration Reference

The **`nmk-rust`** plugin handles the configuration items listed in this page.

All of them are initiliazed with convenient default values, so that you don't need to setup them for a default working behavior. You can anyway override them in your projet if you need to fine tune the plugin behavior. [Some items](extend.md) are specifically designed to be extended by **`nmk`** projects and plugins.

## Paths and files

(rustSrcFolder)=
### **`rustSrcFolder`** -- Rust source code folder

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| str  | [${sourceDir}](https://nmk-base.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config.html#sourcedir-source-base-directory)

This is the path **`nmk`** will browse to find source files.

(rustSrcFiles)=
### **`rustSrcFiles`** -- Rust source files

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| list[Path]  | Generated by {py:class}`nmk_rust.resolvers.RustSourcesResolver`

This is the list of source files for this rust project (found in **{ref}`${rustSrcFolder}<rustSrcFolder>`**).

(rustTargetFolder)=
### **`rustTargetFolder`** -- Rust target binary folder

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| str  | [${outputDir}](https://nmk-base.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config.html#outputdir-output-base-directory)/rust

This is the path where **`cargo`** will generate built artifacts

(rustConfigFolder)=
### **`rustConfigFolder`** -- Rust (cargo) configuration folder

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| str  | ${PROJECTDIR}/.cargo

This is the path where **`cargo`** will look for its configuration file

(rustConfigFile)=
### **`rustConfigFile`** -- Rust (cargo) configuration file

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| str  | **{ref}`${rustSrcFolder}<rustSrcFolder>`**/config.toml

This is the **`cargo`** [configuration file](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/config.html) for the current project. It is generated by the **{ref}`rust.config<rust.config>`** task.

(rustManifestFile)=
### **`rustManifestFile`** -- Rust (cargo) package manifest file

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| str  | ${PROJECTDIR}/Cargo.toml

This is the **`cargo`** package [manifest file](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html) for the current project. It is generated by the **{ref}`rust.manifest<rust.manifest>`** task.

## Rust Package

(rustPackage)=
### **`rustPackage`** -- Rust package name

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| str  | [${projectName}](https://nmk-base.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config.html#projectname)

This is the rust package name to insert when generating **{ref}`${rustManifestFile}<rustManifestFile>`** manifest file.

(rustEdition)=
### **`rustEdition`** -- Rust edition for manifest file

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| int | 2021

This is the [rust edition](https://doc.rust-lang.org/edition-guide/) to insert when generating **{ref}`${rustManifestFile}<rustManifestFile>`** manifest file.

## Cargo configuration

(rustConfigFileFragments)=
### **`rustConfigFileFragments`** -- Cargo config file fragments

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| list[str]  | ["${PROJECTDIR}/templates/config.toml.jinja"]

This is a list of config fragment files to be merged in generated **{ref}`${rustConfigFile}<rustConfigFile>`** file.

(rustConfigFileItems)=
### **`rustConfigFileItems`** -- Cargo config file contributed items

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| Dict | {}

This is a dictionary of items to be contributed in generated **{ref}`${rustConfigFile}<rustConfigFile>`** file.

(rustManifestFileFragments)=
### **`rustManifestFileFragments`** -- Cargo manifest file fragments

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| list[str]  | ["${PROJECTDIR}/templates/manifest.toml.jinja"]

This is a list of manifest fragment files to be merged in generated **{ref}`${rustManifestFile}<rustManifestFile>`** file.

(rustManifestFileItems)=
### **`rustManifestFileItems`** -- Cargo manifest file contributed items

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| Dict | {}

This is a dictionary of items to be contributed in generated **{ref}`${rustManifestFile}<rustManifestFile>`** file.
